# Definition of concepts

<table><thead><tr><th width="75"></th><th width="163">Terms</th><th width="381">Definition</th><th width="110">Used</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>A</td><td>Adult literacy rate</td><td>Defined as the percentage of the population 15 years and older that is literate.<br></td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Adult literacy rate<br></td><td>Defined as the percentage of the population 15 years and older that is literate</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Age</td><td>Age refers to how old a person was at his or her last birthday with reference to the Census Night, and is recorded in completed years.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Age dependency ratio<br></td><td>Refers to the ratio of the population 0 to14 years and 65 years and older to the<br>population 15 to 64 years</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>B</td><td>Basic drinking water services</td><td>Refers to having access to improved sources of drinking water either in the<br>dwelling/yard/plot or within 30 minutes round-trip collection time. </td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>C</td><td>Child marriage</td><td>Refers to children 12 to 17 years who have ever been married or lived with a<br>partner.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Children engaged in economic activity</td><td>Refers to children aged 5 to 14 years who contributed to economic production of<br>goods and services in the seven days before Census Night (27th June 2021).<br></td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Clean fuels and technologies for cooking</td><td>Refers to fuels and technologies that are considered clean for health at point of<br>use. </td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>D</td><td>Data Sources</td><td>The data presented in this report are primarily from the 2021 Population and<br>Housing Census (PHC), which collected information on deaths in the 12 months<br>preceding the Census Night and the broad causes of death.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Data Sources</td><td>This report utilises data from the 2010 and the 2021 Population and Housing Censuses. The report focuses on 23 indicators in the 2021 PHC. Analyses of trends are presented for the 21 indicators which had data available for 2010 and 2021.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Difficulty in performing activities</td><td>Difficulty in performing activities refers to limited or lack of ability to perform specific<br>functions in the following domains: sight, hearing, physical (walking or climbing<br>stairs), intellectual (remembering or concentrating), self-care, and speech.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Difficulty in performing activities</td><td>Difficulty in performing activities refers to limited or lack of ability to perform specific<br>functions in the following domains: sight, hearing, physical (walking or climbing<br>stairs), intellectual (remembering or concentrating), self-care, and speech.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Difficulty in performing activities</td><td>Difficulty in performing activities refers to limited or lack of ability to perform specific<br>functions in the following domains: sight, hearing, physical (walking or climbing<br>stairs), intellectual (remembering or concentrating), self-care, and speech.<br></td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>H</td><td>Household Deaths</td><td>This refers to the number of household members who died in the last 12 months<br>preceding Census Night (27th June, 2021).</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Household size</td><td>Refers to children aged 5 to 14 years who contributed to economic production of<br>goods and services in the seven days before Census Night (27th June 2021).<br></td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>I</td><td>Infant mortality rate</td><td>Refers to the probability of dying between birth and first birthday. The rate is<br>expressed as deaths per 1,000 live births.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>J</td><td>JHS net enrolment rate<br></td><td>Refers to the percent of children 12 to 14 years who are attending junior high school<br>(JHS).</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>L</td><td>Listing Form</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Literacy</td><td>Refers as the ability to read and write with understanding in any language.<br></td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Live Birth</td><td>This refers to a baby who breathed, cried or showed any sign of life after delivery<br>such as movement of limbs, pulsation of the umbilical cord</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>M</td><td>Maternal Deaths</td><td>Maternal deaths refer to the number of female deaths from any cause related to<br>or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management during pregnancy,<br>childbirth, or within 42 days after termination of pregnancy or delivery excluding<br>accidental deaths. </td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Maternal Mortality Lifetime Risk</td><td>Maternal mortality lifetime risk refers to the probability or likelihood that a woman<br>will die from maternal-related causes during her reproductive years. It is usually<br>expressed as a ratio or percentage</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Maternal Mortality Rate</td><td>Maternal mortality rate (MMR) refers to the number of maternal deaths per 1,000 women within the reproductive age group (15-49 years).</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Maternal Mortality Ratio</td><td>Maternal mortality ratio (MMR) is the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live<br>births in a given year. </td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Measurement of Maternal Mortality Indicators</td><td>Maternal mortality ratio is calculated by dividing the number of maternal deaths<br>by total recorded live births (in the 12 months reference period) multiplied by<br>100,000. </td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Multidimensional poverty rate</td><td>Refers to the percentage of the population that is multidimensionally poor. </td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>N</td><td>Net enrolment rate (NER)<br></td><td>Defined as the population with age range corresponding to a specific level of<br>education who are currently attending that level of education, expressed as a<br>percentage of the total population in that age range. </td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Net enrolment rate (NER)<br></td><td>Defined as the population with age range corresponding to a specific level of<br>education who are currently attending that level of education, expressed as a<br>percentage of the total population in that age range. </td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>O</td><td>Open defaecation</td><td>Refers to lack of access to a toilet facility and use of bushes, open fields, gutters,<br>the beach, polythene bag or chamber pots as the points of defaecation.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>P</td><td>Population density</td><td>Defined as the number of persons per square kilometre of land. This is a crude<br>measure of how people are spread over a given surface area, such as region and<br>district.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Population density</td><td>Defined as the number of persons per square kilometre of land. This is a crude<br>measure of how people are spread over a given surface area, such as region and<br>district</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Pregnancy-related death (PRD)</td><td>is calculated by dividing recorded maternal<br>deaths by the number of deaths among women of reproductive age (15-49<br>years) multiplied by 1,000.<br></td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Pregnancy-related Deaths</td><td>Pregnancy-related death refers to the death of women during pregnancy,<br>childbirth, or within 42 days after the end of pregnancy, including accidental<br>deaths</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Pre-primary net enrolment rate</td><td>Pre-primary net enrolment rate</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Primary net enrolment rate</td><td>Refers to the percent of children 6 to 11 years who are attending primary school</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>S</td><td>SHS net enrolment rate</td><td>Refers to the percent of children 15 to 17 years who are attending SHS/secondary<br>school</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>U</td><td>Under-five mortality rate<br></td><td>Refers to the probability of dying before age 5. This rate is expressed as deaths per<br>1,000 live births.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Unemployment rate</td><td>Refers to the percentage of the labour force 15 years and older that, in the seven<br>days prior to the Census Night, did not work or did not have work to go to but was<br>available to work.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Urban</td><td>Refers to a locality with a population of 5,000 or more.</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Urban 5000 + Facility</td><td>Localities with at least 5,000 population in addition to at least 75 percent of the inhabitants having access to Electricity; at least  50 percent of the inhabitants having access to Potable water; Availability of Health facility (clinic or better); Availability to Education facility- at least Basic School (JHS)</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Urbanisation rate</td><td>Defined as the percentage of the district’s population that is urban</td><td>Census</td></tr><tr><td>V</td><td>Vulnerable employment</td><td>Refers to the percentage of employed persons 15 years and older who are either self-employed without employees or contributing family workers.</td><td>Census</td></tr></tbody></table>
